Organizations have been practicing some values without formally articulating it since inception.  Organizations are
known for single status, financial integrity and other practices. 

The effort towards articulating the values began in June 2002.  Hari Iyer conducted series of brain storming sessions during this period with a sample of XYZs across the organization.  The brain  storming was to understand what are the values that XYZs want to be practiced in Organizations.  The responses were documented and used for organization vision building in July 2002, which was facilitated by Dr. Prasad Kaipa. 

A value workshop was conducted in March 2003 were 52 XYZs (Band IV A and above) attended. This was facilitated by Nidhi Das, Priya A Batra and Raja Chidambaram.  The objective of this half-day workshop was listing down five values that Organizations stands for. A checklist of seventeen values (based on the work done in June 2002) was used for prioritizing the values during the workshop.  During this workshop a list of five values came out as a consensus.  They are: 

Respect for individual
Excellence
Integrity
Customer Orientation
Innovation

Participants shared organizational stories (experiences) on practice of these values.  They also nominated six individuals to work on defining these values.  With this the workshop came to an end.

A task force of eight was formed with the nominees by the large group and two representatives from HR. The task force members were Vinay N Hebballi, Shyam Kodavarthi, Prashanth Kamat U, Milind S Gandhe, T K Srikanth, Krishnamurthy Ganesh, Priya A Batra and Raja Chidambaram.  

The task force worked on developing the definition and the observable behaviors for Organizations values.  The task force deliberated on the framework, common understanding, definition and issues of  practice or non-adherence of these values.  The task force decided to list down the values as  observable behaviors than as a rating scale.  This was based on the understanding that practice of values cannot be on a continuum but a definite practice or a non-adherence.     

Respect for individual is defined as a commitment to act with equity, to welcome difference, and to
engage in open exchange about ideas and decisions. 

We respect the individual, and believe that individuals who are treated with respect and given responsibility respond by giving their best.

